Add Distance Measurement submodule and sample (#6428)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/others/dm.rst

.. _mod_dm:

Distance Measurement
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Distance Measurement module provides an integration of :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` into |NCS|.

Overview
********

The Distance Measurement module is independent of the communication protocol used.
The :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` is used to access the radio module which is required by the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` library.

> During the allocated tiemslot, a distance measurement is performed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The distance is measured during the allocated timeslot.
```

Author: Fixed.

Using Distance Measurement
**************************

To use Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your :file:`main.c` file.
After synchronizing the nodes between which the measurement is to be performed, add the measurement request.

> When the measurement data are available, the callback function will be called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The callback function is called when the measurement data is available.
```
You could be more specific. Which callback function?

Author: Fixed.

Complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.
#. Include :file:`dm.h` in your :file:`main.c` file.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_init()` to initialize the module.

> #. Call :c:func:`dm_request_add()` to take a measurement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Call :c:func:`dm_request_add()` to perform the measurement.
```

Configuration
*************

To use the Distance Measurement module, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.

> Adjusting nodes synchronization can be accomplished by changing the values of the parameters: :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US`, :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To adjust the synchronization of the nodes, change the values of the following options:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US`
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US`
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The parameter :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` is the time between synchronization (adding a request) and the rangigng.
> Increasing this allows for more rangings to different nodes but also increases latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` defines the time between the synchronization (adding a request) and ranging.
Increasing this allows for more rangings to different nodes but also increases latency.
```

Author: Fixed.

> Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` parameter causes the pins state to change when a new measurement request is added and when the timeslot is assigned.
> This functionality can be used to determine synchronization accuracy.
> Assignment of a pin number is realized by using :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` option changes the state of the pins when a new measurement request is added and the timeslot is assigned.
You can use this functionality to determine the synchronization accuracy.
To assign the pin numbers, use the options :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.
```

Author: Fixed.

> You can set the following Kconfig options:
>    * :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM_TIMER`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set the following Kconfig options:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM_TIMER`
```
Align the rest of the options with the first one here.

Author: Fixed.

.. _mod_dm:

Distance Measurement
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Distance Measurement module provides an integration of :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` into |NCS|.

Overview
********

The Distance Measurement module is independent of the communication protocol used.

> The :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` is used to access the radio module which is required by the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` library.

Reviewer 2: the timeslot is not directly required by the library in nrfxlib.

Author: Modified.

The distance is measured during the allocated timeslot.

Using Distance Measurement
**************************

> To use Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your :file:`main.c` file.

Reviewer 2: forget this, the user of this library does not need to know/care

> To use Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your :file:`main.c` file.

Author: Fixed.

> After synchronizing the nodes between which the measurement is to be performed, add the measurement request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After synchronizing the nodes that should perform the measurement with each other, issue the measurement request.
```

Author: ACK

The callback function - :c:func:`data_ready` is called when the measurement data is available.

Complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.
#. Include :file:`dm.h` in your :file:`main.c` file.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_init()` to initialize the module.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_request_add()` to perform the measurement.

Configuration
*************

To use the Distance Measurement module, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.

> To adjust the synchronization of the nodes, change the values of the following options:

Reviewer 2: I would focus here on the settings that the users are supposed to change and then maybe have it more scenario oriented: how do you increase scalability? How do you reduce latency? and so on.

Author: Done. I have added a description of the parameters.

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US`
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US`
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US`

The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` defines the time between the synchronization (adding a request) and ranging.
Increasing this allows for more rangings to different nodes but also increases latency.

Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` option changes the state of the pins when a new measurement request is added and the timeslot is assigned.
You can use this functionality to determine the synchronization accuracy.
To assign the pin numbers, use the options :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.

You can set the following Kconfig options:

> * :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM_TIMER`

Author: I have removed a list of Kconfigs. I have expanded the description of the important options.

.. _mod_dm:

Distance Measurement
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Distance Measurement module provides an integration of :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_dm` into |NCS|.

Overview
********

The Distance Measurement module is independent of the communication protocol used.

> The :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` is used to access the radio module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :ref:`nrfxlib:mpsl` library is used to access the radio module.
```

The distance is measured during the allocated timeslot.

Ranging
*******

When a new ranging request arrives, the module checks if a timeslot for the ranging can be scheduled.

> It checks if the request fits in the schedule of rangings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also checks if the request fits in the schedule of rangings.
```

Author: Fixed.

Rangings are not executed immediately but are scheduled for future execution.
This gives additional flexibility.
New ranging requests may arrive at any point in time.

> If the request can be scheduled module perform the ranging after :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` has passed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the request can be scheduled, the module performs the ranging after :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` has passed.
```

Author: Fixed.

> If the request can be scheduled module perform the ranging after :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` has passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the request can be scheduled, the module performs the ranging after the time set in the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` option has passed.
```

Author: Fixed.

The ranging is executed in a timeslot.

> After a ranging, a callback is called to store or process the measurement data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After ranging, a callback is called to store or process the measurement data.
```

Author: Fixed.

Using Distance Measurement
**************************

> To use Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your application.
```

Author: Fixed.

> To use Distance Measurement module, enable it using the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option and initialize it in your application.

Author: Fixed.

> After synchronizing the nodes that should perform the measurement with each other, issue the measurement request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After synchronizing, the nodes that should perform the measurement with each other issue the measurement request.
```

Author: Fixed.

> After synchronizing, the nodes that should perform the measurement with each other, issue the measurement request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After synchronizing, the nodes that should perform the measurement with each other issue the measurement request.
```

Author: Fixed.

> The callback function - :c:func:`data_ready` is called when the measurement data is available.

Author: Fixed.

Complete the following steps:

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.
#. Include :file:`dm.h` in your :file:`main.c` file.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_init()` to initialize the module.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_request_add()` to perform the measurement.

Configuration
*************

To use the Distance Measurement module, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.

To adjust the synchronization of the nodes, change the values of the following options:

> * :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of initiator role in distance measurement. Reducing this improves power consumption but leads to less successful rangings.

Author: Fixed.

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of reflector role in distance measurement.
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US` - Minimum time between two timeslots. This should account for processing of the ranging data after the timeslot.

> 

Author: I have added a short introduction.

The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` defines the time between the synchronization (adding a request) and ranging.
Increasing this allows for more rangings to different nodes but also increases latency.

Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` option changes the state of the pins when a new measurement request is added and the timeslot is assigned.
You can use this functionality to determine the synchronization accuracy.
To assign the pin numbers, use the options :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.

The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_LENGTH` defines the maximum number of scheduled timeslots.

> And :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_COUNT_SAME_PEER` defines the maximum numer of timeslots with rangings to the same peer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_COUNT_SAME_PEER` defines the maximum number of timeslots with rangings to the same peer.
```

For optimal performance and scalability, both peers should come to the same decision to range each other.

> Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer which is not listening and therefore wastes

Reviewer: Something missing here?

Author: Fixed.

> Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer which is not listening and therefore wastes

Reviewer 2: missing end of sentence

Author: Fixed.

> Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer which is not listening and therefore wastes.

Reviewer 2: wastes what?

Author: Corrected.

> Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer which is not listening and therefore wastes power and time during this operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer that is not listening and therefore wastes power and time during this operation.
```

> Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_RESCHEDULE` option the device will try to range the same peer again after a successful ranging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_RESCHEDULE` option, the device will try to range the same peer again after a successful ranging.
```
... "range again after a succesful ranging" sounds a bit odd. Isn't it rather trying to range the peer again in a new timeslot?

Author: Maybe: "... the device will try to range the same peer again if the previous ranging was successful." ?

1. Enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.
#. Include :file:`dm.h` in your :file:`main.c` file.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_init()` to initialize the module.
#. Call :c:func:`dm_request_add()` to perform the measurement.

Configuration
*************

To use the Distance Measurement module, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.

Synchronization
---------------

To adjust the synchronization of the nodes, change the values of the following options:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of initiator role in distance measurement. Reducing this decreases power consumption but leads to less successful rangings.
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of reflector role in distance measurement.
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US` - Minimum time between two timeslots. This should account for processing of the ranging data after the timeslot.

It is possible to enable a output pin state change when an event related to this module occurs.
You can use this functionality to determine the synchronization accuracy.
A logic analyzer or oscilloscope will be helpful for this purpose.

> Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` option changes the state of the pins when a new measurement request is added and the timeslot is assigned.

Reviewer: Are these three options supposed to be under the node synchronization adjustments? Or should we have another introductory sentence for them?

Author: CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG can be used during synchronization matching. 
It is an auxiliary functionality. By itself however, it has no effect on synchronization accuracy. 

The introduction to this was to be the sentences in lines 60-62.

To assign the pin numbers, use the options :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.

> Use the following options to configure the timeslot queue.
> 
> * :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_LENGTH` - Maximum number of scheduled timeslots.
> * :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_COUNT_SAME_PEER` - Maximum number of timeslots with rangings to the same peer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following options to configure the timeslot queue:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_LENGTH` - Maximum number of scheduled timeslots
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_QUEUE_COUNT_SAME_PEER` - Maximum number of timeslots with rangings to the same peer.

```

Reviewer: The missing empty line made the doc build fail.

Author: Fixed

For optimal performance and scalability, both peers should come to the same decision to range each other.
Otherwise, one of the peers tries to range the other peer that is not listening and therefore wastes power and time during this operation.

The option :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_OFFSET_US` defines the time between the synchronization (adding a request) and ranging.
Increasing this allows for more rangings to different nodes but also increases latency.

> If you enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_TIMESLOT_RESCHEDULE` option, the device will try to range the same peer again if the previous ranging was successful.

Reviewer: Should this option be placed as a third item under the timeslot queue configurations?

Author: No, this is a parameter independent of the timeslot queue configuration.

To use the Distance Measurement module, enable the :kconfig:`CONFIG_NRF_DM` Kconfig option.

Synchronization
---------------

To adjust the synchronization of the nodes, change the values of the following options:

* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_INITIATOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of initiator role in distance measurement. Reducing this decreases power consumption but leads to less successful rangings.
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_REFLECTOR_DELAY_US` - Extra delay of start of reflector role in distance measurement.
* :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_MIN_TIME_BETWEEN_TIMESLOTS_US` - Minimum time between two timeslots. This should account for processing of the ranging data after the timeslot.

It is possible to enable an output pin state change when an event related to this module occurs.
You can use this functionality to determine the synchronization accuracy.
A logic analyzer or oscilloscope will be helpful for this purpose.

Enabling the :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_GPIO_DEBUG` option changes the state of the pins when a new measurement request is added and the timeslot is assigned.
To assign the pin numbers, use the options :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_RANGING_PIN` and :kconfig:`CONFIG_DM_ADD_REQUEST_PIN`.

> Use the following options to configure the timeslot queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following options to configure the timeslot queue:
```
Real nitpicking: You forgot the colon
